---
layout: post
title: "Comparing treatments in hepatocellular carcinoma: a two-step IPD network meta-analysis"
---

This talk will be given by Marco Enea from the University of Palermo:

<em>
"In the last years, new treatments to advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) have been available but head-to-head comparisons among all the available agents are missing, and there it is controversial to state the best agent. Network Meta-Analysis (NMA) is a statistical technique that allows to rank treatments based on direct and indirect comparisons among the trials. When the outcome is the survival time, a common choice to measure the effect size is the hazard ratio (HR). However, using the HR involves the proportional hazards (PH) assumption that holds not only for the treatments within the same trials, but also when comparing different treatments form different trials, which is difficult to meet in practice. Restricted mean survival time (RMST), defined as the area under the survival curve up to a specified time point, is a survival measure as simple to interpret as HR. Moreover, it does not need the PH assumption, and it is a standard output of many statistical survival packages. In this work, by using a similar approach to the Freeman et al.’s (2022), with the aim to rank the HCC treatments, we reconstructed the survival individual patient data (IPD) from published trials survival curves for two outcomes, the overall survival (OS) and the progression-free survival (PFS). Then, in the first step, we re-estimated the survival curves by fitting two Royston-Parmar models, with fixed (for OS) and random effects (for PFS). In the second step, we estimated the treatments’ RMST differences, and their standard errors, to perform two separate NMAs for these two outcomes. The two NMAs mostly have a star shaped geometry implying that only indirect treatment comparisons are possible."
</em>
