---
layout: post
title: Nonparametric estimation of the event probability using redistribution and weights
---

This talk will be given by Ronald Geskus from the University of Oxford:

<em>
 I will discuss nonparametric estimation in time-to-event settings with a single event type, with multiple event types (competing risks) and with intermediate states.  With completely observed data, estimation of event probabilities and state occupation probabilities boils down to computing frequencies.  With right censored and/or left truncated data, estimation is typically based on the hazard. This leads to the Aalen-Johansen estimator, with the Kaplan-Meier as special case.</em>

<em>
For the setting with a single event type or competing risks, algebraically equivalent estimators have been formulated that focus on the event probability. They redistribute the contribution of censored individuals and/or use weights that quantify the probability to be in the risk set. We extend this approach to the multi-state setting. If the time-to-censoring and time-to-entry distribution don't depend on state, the Aalen-Johansen estimator of the state occupation probability is asymptotically unbiased. We discuss the redistribution mechanism and the weights that give the algebraically equivalent estimate. The main issue is how to deal with transitions to non-absorbing states. We discriminate between a "generous" approach, in which an individual that enters a state has his weight redistributed over all individuals, and a "stingy" approach, in which an individual keeps the weight he has gained in the past.  In a simulation study, we compare their performance when estimating the state occupation probability in the setting of a non-Markov model with state-dependent censoring."
</em>
