---
layout: post
title:  "Fine-Gray subdistribution hazard models to simultaneously estimate the absolute risk of different event types: Cumulative total failure probability may exceed 1 (Hein Putter)"
location: "Snellius 176"
time: "12:00 - 13:00"
---

<em>
The Fine-Gray subdistribution hazard model has become the default method
to estimate the incidence of outcomes over time in the presence of competing
risks. This model is attractive because it directly relates covariates to the
cumulative incidence function (CIF) of the event of interest. An alternative is
to combine the different cause-specific hazard functions to obtain the different
CIFs. A limitation of the subdistribution hazard approach is that the sum of the
cause-specific CIFs can exceed 1 (100%) for some covariate patterns. Using data
on 9479 patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction, we estimated
the cumulative incidence of both cardiovascular death and non-cardiovascular
death for each patient. We found that when using subdistribution hazard models,
approximately 5% of subjects had an estimated risk of 5-year all-cause death
(obtained by combining the two cause-specific CIFs obtained from subdistribution
hazard models) that exceeded 1. This phenomenon was avoided by using
the two cause-specific hazard models. We provide a proof that the sum of predictions
exceeds 1 is a fundamental problem with the Fine-Gray subdistribution
hazard model. Care should be taken when using the Fine-Gray subdistribution hazard
model in situations with wide risk distributions or a high cumulative incidence,
and if one is interested in the risk of failure from each of the different event
types.
</em>
